Previously on The Exorcist...
What do you want from me?
Quit pretending.
You know perfectly well
what you must do.
Bring her to me.
(sizzling)
How's Jim?
I moved out.
There's a place
where I'm not married
and you're not a priest.
Leave everything else outside.
You're so special.
Let me touch you.
Let me touch you...
Come on.
MARIA: Your Eminence,
and Father Bennet.
So happy to have you.
BENNETT:
Tattersal Landscaping.
Perhaps you'd like
to explain to me
how a defunct
landscaping company
funnels nearly $3 million
into a papal planning
committee.
(grunting)
(screams)
The Devil in my Daughter.
TALK SHOW HOST: What happened
to you in Georgetown?
REGAN:
I remember that
I couldn't control
my body sometimes.
There was just
this voice.
That's all I remember.
What happened in that room...
I can't... remember.
(growling)
So that your child
may be born again!
(rumbling)
Help me.
(gasps)
(yelling):
Mother Bernadette!
(growling)
MARCUS: Four decades ago, it had
Regan's body and it lost it.
That is a demon
with a 40-year grudge.
You're asking me to lie.
God is in me. Yeah, lie.
*
(inhales)
(door opens)
(footsteps approach)
(exhales)
Get her out of here.
It's her right to be here.
(low, pleased growling)
(exhales)
(demonic voice):
The sow.
Casey...
Why didn't you tell me
you found her?
That's my daughter.
Only part of her.
(grunts)
ANGELA:
I'm her mother.
Casey?
(demonic voice):
Rags.
Bloody rags.
Casey, I know
you can hear me.
I know you're in there.
Baby, you have to stay strong.
(door opens)
NUN: I'm sorry, you
can't go in there.
HENRY: Get out of our way.
KATHERINE: Let us in.
NUN: I'm sorry, you're gonna
have to hold back.
Oh, my God.
Casey...
You need to get this family
out of here right now.
You need to get
out of my face right now.
(demonic voice):
Mother MacNeil.
Someone got old.
(normal voice):
Kat?
I knew you'd come.
Are you here to take me home?
Yeah. Just as soon
as you're better,
we're gonna take you back.
(demonic voice):
You're a terrible driver.
What?
Just walk away, Katherine.
Almost ran me over
when you ogled that
ginger whore's breasts.
Only one in your
company with any talent,
and you obliterated it
for a little lesbo curiosity.
It's not her.
CASEY (normal voice):
Kat,
look at me.
Get away, Kat.
(demonic voice):
Is that you speaking,
Daddy Dimwit?
Casey, honey...
Duh, duh,
duh, Dad.
Did you string those words, Dad,
into a sentence
all by yourself, Dad?
Head buried in blueprints
while I unscrewed that screw,
and sent the scaffolding
down, down,
down, duh, duh,
duh, Dad?
(growls)
(grunts)
(Katherine shrieks)
(panting)
MOTHER BERNADETTE:
"The glorious Mother of God,
the Virgin Mary,
"commands you to flee.
We have come to crush
your proud head..."
(normal voice):
What's wrong, Mommy?
Get the hell out of my child.
(demonic voice):
Hell?
Do you know what Hell is, Regan?
It's where Casey
is right now.
(door closes)
In a room
with no windows,
nailed to the floor,
surrounded by nothing.
Alone forever.
Knowing it was her mother
who put here there.
But don't worry.
There's room for you, too.
*
MARCUS AND TOMAS (distant):
God surrounds us.
The love of God enfolds us.
The power of God protects us.
HENRY:
We should be in there.
They're trying to save her.
We should be allowed to...
(thump)
What's the word?
What's the damn word?
Watch.
Monitor!
We should be
allowed to monitor
what is going on.
How can you be
so calm about this?
How can you just sit there
and be calm?
I'm a lot of things right now,
but calm is not one of them.
This was the hardest part.
And Father Maren
barred me from the room.
You're left on the outside
and you have to listen
to all those sounds.
Yeah?
How'd that work out
for Father Maren?
Honey.
What?
I need you to go home
and start packing for us.
Oh, like hell. Like hell I am.
We're not leaving her here.
ANGELA:
We're not.
I'm gonna be here.
I'm gonna get her back.
And when this is over, when...
when this works,
it's gonna be bad for Casey.
Just like it
was for me.
(loud thump)
The police,
the... the media,
everything.
You don't want to put her
through that, do you?
No.
(exhales)
So,
we need you to be able to...
pick up and get
the hell out of town.
All right?
Can you do that for me?
Just...
...don't... don't
let them hurt her.
Never.
Call us, if anything changes.
(prayer continues
indistinctly)
(choral music playing)
FEMALE REPORTER:
Mr. Rance!
(cameras clicking)
(excited chatter)
CHRIS:
Get out of her face!
Get them to back off.
CHRIS:
Leave her alone.
Mr. Rance, where is your
daughter? Mr. Rance, please.
(car door opens, engine starts)
(tires screech)
FEMALE REPORTER:
Is Casey inside the building?
(excited chatter)
REPORTERS:
Where is Casey?
You are trespassing
on private property.
You are creating
a hostile environment
for the sisters
who are cloistered here.
As head of this priory,
I request that all of you leave.
Otherwise, I will be forced
to call the police, and...
We're already here.
I would like
these people to leave.
Uh, public sidewalks,
so unless someone
commits a specific crime, there
isn't a whole lot we can do.
It's an unlawful gathering.
Look,
why don't you let me come in,
take a quick look around,
we can tell all
these nice people
there's nothing to see here,
everyone goes home.
Do you have a warrant?
I was hoping we
didn't need one, Sister.
It's Mother.
Five minutes,
we'll be out of your hair.
(bell tolls)
Ah. Would you look at that?
You don't want to do that...
(door opens)
(sirens wailing in distance)
(beeping)
(inhales sharply):
Ugh.
LESTER: Oh, quit squirming.
It's barely been punctured.
(grunts)
Oh, I'm sorry.
Have you ever been
stabbed before?
Myrtle Beach, 1974.
Ate two tabs of brown clown
in the parking lot
after a supremely
disappointing ELO
quote unquote "concert."
Yes.
Yes, I'd like to report the
discovery of human remains.
Um... probably like...
(large vehicle rumbling past)
a dozen?
Yeah, a dozen.
Well, they wouldn't be remains
if they weren't dead,
would they?
Tattersal Landscaping
at Overton and 11th.
Boiler room.
Check the boiler room.
Tattersal.
T-A-T-T-E-R-S-A-L.
Sure. I'll hold.
(beeps)
Let me call.
I do a bang-up '40s gumshoe.
(cracks)
MARCUS (distant):
Strike terror, Lord,
into the beast now laying waste
to your vineyard.
Fill your servants
with courage to fight manfully
against that reprobate dragon...
Marcus...
...lest he despise those who put
their trust in you...
It's not working.
It wants Angela.
All the more reason
to keep her away.
You saw how it woke
when she was in here.
She could help us draw
the demon out. Bait the whale.
MARCUS: You never give
a demon what it wants.
(squishing, squeaking)
Why not? Why not give it to her?
You disobeyed my direct order.
I don't take orders from you.
Well you should,
'cause you're gonna
get her killed.
Well, I'm not the one
with blood on my hands.
No, you're not,
'cause you're not an exorcist.
And you're not a priest.
(insects buzzing)
(grunts)
(demonic voice laughs)
Ugh!
(insects chirping intensely)
(whimpers)
(growling, exhaling)
Tomas, Tomas!
(grunts)
Shh, shh!
(panting)
It worms its way in...
...and it lays its little eggs.
(laughing)
(laughs)
Angela beat it once.
It's a risk.
...blessed is the fruit
of thy womb, Jesus.
(door opens)
Holy Mary, Mother of God,
(footsteps)
pray for us sinners,
now and at the hour
of our death.
Our Father, who art in heaven,
hallowed be Thy name,
Thy kingdom come,
Thy will be done...
I'm ready.
I can't emphasize enough
the risk you're taking.
Don't think a 40-year absence
will protect you.
I know this thing
better than anyone.
If you feel it
poking around at all,
even the slightest twinge,
you run.
Drop everything and run.
(door opens)
(hinges creaking)
MOTHER BERNADETTE:
...all wretched powers...
all wicked legions...
(continues praying quietly)
(exhales)
(chains rattling)
All infernal invaders...
(demonic voice):
Hello, Mommy.
(sizzling)
You're not my daughter.
That's right.
Your daughter's dead.
Isn't that what you told Padre?
What kind of mother
gives up hope that easily?
TOMAS AND MOTHER BERNADETTE:
All Satanic powers...
(moaning)
All wicked
legions...
I liked you better as a soloist.
Hiding behind a civilian,
Marcus?
MARCUS:
Keep it talking.
About what?
The more mundane,
the better.
Words don't matter.
Yes, Mother.
Distract me.
Do-- do you remember
when you broke your foot?
Riveting.
Ah.
(groaning)
Keep on with it.
You had a play date.
You were at, uh,
you were at
Saylor's house.
And you were
climbing a tree
in the backyard, the oak.
And one of the
branches snapped,
and you fell.
Good. Keep talking.
You fell.
Uh, your foot...
Casey, you broke
your foot.
You thought about it,
didn't you?
When she was born.
Couldn't wait to rip her
from your teat
like a sickly kitten.
ANGELA:
And you didn't cry.
You didn't even call home.
Which is what you
really should have done.
You just--
you just started walking.
Suppose it's my fault...
for stretching you out.
Leaving a hole
that nothing
could ever quite fill.
You walked home.
All three blocks.
And you didn't cry.
Not even once.
On a broken foot, you walked.
Not Henry.
Not your daughters.
Bet she didn't tell you...
she scraped the first one out.
And that's when--
that's, that's when...
Worried it would
come out like her.
...I knew.
Rotten.
Filthy.
I knew!
Putrid.
I knew that no matter
what life threw you, Casey,
that you
would be okay.
Devil of lies.
ANGELA: Because
you are strong.
You are stronger
...monster.
...than I could
ever be.
Give way to Christ.
Casey!
TOMAS:
Give way, you monster.
I forgive you, fallen angel.
(sizzling)
(groaning)
None of your works.
MARCUS:
I forgive you, fallen angel.
I forgive you,
fallen angel.
I forgive you, fallen angel.
MOTHER BERNADETTE:
Child of God, you are forgiven.
(growling)
Walk into
the light.
(growling)
(groaning)
MARCUS:
...you have no authority,
but that which is given.
Following up
on the gruesome discovery
of an as-yet undisclosed
number of corpses
at a decommissioned warehouse
in the Bronzeville neighborhood.
At a press conference...
NEWS ANCHOR: ...not to jump
to any conclusions.
...they are narrowing down
a group of suspects
and hope to have the perpetrator
or perpetrators
in custody
in the very near future.
Just whatever you need
for the next few weeks, okay?
What's the rush? It's not like
we're gonna be able to move
with the state
that Casey's in.
I mean, you saw
how sick she looks.
She's gonna need doctors,
medication.
Do we even know
where the hell
we're moving to?
Guelph.
Guelph?
Yeah, it's outside Toronto.
Canada.
Who the hell
lives in Canada?
I got in touch
with an old friend.
So we run away
and what,
just hope everyone
magically forgets
that Casey
killed two people?
That was the demon.
That was not your sister!
I know.
Um,
I've got a house
in Palm Springs.
It's a little,
four-bedroom place.
I bought it as a winter home.
I haven't lived there in years.
There's a renter.
I can boot him out.
It's quiet
and it's private.
No, they'll find us.
Even if we
get her back,
they're gonna
arrest her.
They can find her
in Canada, too.
Do you have a summer home
in Venezuela?
I hear that's
where criminals go.
She's not a criminal.
I know, but you just said
she's gonna get arrested.
Not a lot of dance schools
in Guelph,
I'm guessing.
Henry, you've
got to think of
both daughters at this point.
We're not splitting up
this family.
I'm not going
back to school.
Yes, you are.
Honey, now,
it's lousy timing
but I'm putting it out there.
Don't.
I've made up my mind.
(zipper closing)
(demonic growling)
(chains rattling)
...one baptism, one God
and Father of all
who is above all and through
all and in all.
(growling)
There is one body
and one Spirit...
(growling loudly)
that belongs to your call.
(overlapping voices):
One Lord, one faith,
one baptism, one God
and Father of all...
who is over all
and through all...
(groaning)
"Who was over all,
and through all and in all."
Just as you were called...
(groaning)
(wheezing)
...one baptism,
one God and
(growling)
...Father of all,
who is over all...
and through all
and in all.
There is one God and one...
(growling)
(demonic yelling)
(groaning)
...one faith, one baptism,
one God and
Father of all...
ANGELA:
One faith, one baptism,
one God and Father of all,
who is over all and through all
and in all.
But grace was given to each...
...one of us,
according to the measure
of Christ's gift.
(demonic voice):
The things I could tell you
about Christ's gift.
What are you doing?
Let's play a game, Mother.
Just you and me.
(rumbling)
RADIO ANNOUNCER:
Really cold day here in D.C.
It's only gonna get up to
the mid-30s,
so be sure to wear your muffs
and scarves out there.
(humming)
What's going on? Beltway traffic
looking pretty good.
(humming continues)
That fender-bender on the 395,
we mentioned earlier
looks to be all clear.
(humming)
So for you Led Heads,
tickets for Zeppelin's
North American Tour go on sale
(humming)
next week...
Is there anyone there?
RADIO ANNOUNCER:
...so unless you want to drive
to one of New York's
three Garden shows...
No.
...grab some seats at the
Baltimore Civic Center.
Is there anyone there?
* ...run right
Hello?
* Off you go to school
* Where you can learn the rules
there right *
Are you there?
Hello?
* Never go astray
* And stay an honest
loving son *
(chuckles)
What's your name?
* Son of my father
* Molded, I was folded,
I was preform-packed *
* Son of my father
(planchette moving)
* Commanded, I was branded
in a plastic vac' *
* Surrounded and confounded
by statistic facts *
(planchette moving)
Captain Howdy.
(scoffs)
Captain Howdy?
What kind of
name is that?
Captain Howdy?
Is my mom ever gonna
get married again?
SALESMAN:
Mm, no.
REGAN:
Captain Howdy,
that's not very nice.
You.
How am I gonna
have a new dad
if my mom never
finds someone?
Still haven't found Daddy,
have we?
Nice to see you all
grown up, though.
It's been a minute.
You were the photographer,
at the zoo.
And you were six.
You took my picture.
That was the first
time I saw...
Watch the birdie.
(camera flashes)
(bird fluttering)
Why are you making
me watch this?
I thought you didn't
remember most of it.
Consider this a refresher,
a stroll down memory lane.
(door opens)
CHRIS:
Rags?
You down there?
(Regan's voice):
Yeah, Mom. I'm fine.
Geez.
CHRIS:
Okay, Stinkpot.
Just-- just
checking.
(door closes)
You own mother
called you Stinkpot.
I gave you memories.
Do you know what's
my favorite memory of you?
Mm...
This...
right here.
My sweet, my dear...
My Regan MacNeil.
The girl that
got away.
Look what you've done
to her, to me!
Do you remember how much
pleasure you were feeling
at this moment?
The gates I unlocked
for you.
Past.
I ruined men
for you. Say it.
That isn't true.
Oh, yes. Henry?
Virility personified.
Why did you choose me?
"Why me"?
Who are you?
You expect me to say you have
some gift, some ability,
something that sets you apart
and makes you special?
You were chosen?
There are close to eight
billion human beings
crawling this earth--
you're like vermin. "Why me?"
Because you were under
my foot, you stupid bitch.
(chuckles)
"Why me?"
I will say this.
It has good vintage, your whine.
Even your Christ on his cross
screamed out,
"Why me?"
like it was poetry.
"Father, why hast Thou
forsaken me?"
He was screaming in pain
and shouting, "Damn you!
Why me?"
Leave my family alone!
No.
Forgot that, did you?
Why are you doing this?
Because you don't get
to walk away.
Not after what you did.
Besides...I miss your taste.
Ah! Oh...
Ahh.
Oh!
You're different now.
You taste like... death.
(door opens)
CHRIS:
Rags? Rags?
Yoo-hoo.
You sure you're okay?
What you doing
down here?
Oh, jeez.
Where'd you get
that thing?
Listen, go up
and say hi to Burke.
He'd love to
see you. Yeah?
What's the matter?
(gasps):
Oh, I didn't tell you.
(chuckles)
Guess what?
Your momma is gonna be
a great big movie
director.
(chuckles)
Well, maybe not big, but they
sent over this script,
and they want me to direct
one-third of it.
It's like this
triptych thing.
What do you think?
Should I do it?
It's called "Hope."
Come on up.
Come upstairs, and I'll let you
have half a glass of wine.
(demonic growls)
MARCUS: You have no will
but that which is given.
You have no authority
(praying indistinctly)
(gasping)
Return to the shadow,
viper!
You have no hold
on this woman.
Child of God,
you are forgiven.
You are loved.
You are perfect and whole.
There is no place for you here.
Marcus!
(gasping, banging continue)
Yeah, worth a shot.
Oh, my God, I'm heartily sorry
for having offended Thee.
And I detest all my sins.
(demonic voice):
Last rites, priest?
Giving up on the piglet
so soon?
The last rites aren't
for Casey, they're for you.
Because I dread the loss of
Heaven and the pains of Hell.
ALL: But most of all because
they offend Thee, my God,
who are all good and deserving
of all my love.
Sorry, Mommy, show's over.
Time to give the people
what they want.
Casey...
(cracking)
Casey! No!
MARCUS:
Angela, get back!
Casey, stay with me!
Angela, please!
Stay with me!
Casey, no!
MARCUS:
You have no authority but
that which is given.
Casey!
I firmly resolve,
with the help of Thy grace,
to confess my sins,
to do penance,
and to amend my life!
Amen.
He has borne our weakness
and endured our suffering.
He will reward you
with eternal life.
I confess to Almighty God,
and to you,
my brothers and sisters,
that I have greatly sinned,
in my thoughts
and in my words.
In what I have done and
what I have failed to do.
Through my fault!
Through my most grievous fault.
(shouting):
I confess!
(demonic growling)
(gasping)
(groaning, growling)
Return to me!
(gasps)
(normal voice):
Mom?
Casey?
(whimpers)
Casey!
(both crying)
ANGELA:
Casey.
Oh, Casey.
(siren blaring)
(excited crowd chatter)
*
(siren blaring)
(indistinct chatter)
SWAT LEADER: Move! Move in!
Okay, go!
Clear!
Clear.
Hallway's clear!
(men speaking indistinctly)
(door kicked in)
Gun, gun, gun!
Drop the weapon!
Can you hear the angels?
Can you hear them singing?
(gunshot)
(monitor beeping)
DETECTIVE LAWRENCE:
Mr. Rance.
I'm gonna need to talk to her
the second she's alert.
You can talk
to our lawyer first.
But I'm also gonna
talk to your daughter.
It's gonna happen,
Mr. Rance.
It's happening.
She's a 100-pound girl.
She didn't do it.
So why the lawyer?
(both sigh)
Is she gonna be okay?
I think the Rance girls are
a couple of tough cookies.
That's what I think.
When this is done,
you should give some serious
thought to what Chris said.
About California.
I thought we were going
to be Canadians.
Or Venezuelans.
Maybe us.
You...You were always
gonna be somewhere else.
It's just a matter
of when.
Your grandma's
a movie star.
It's so weird.
(chuckles):
I know.
But she knows people
who can help you.
I'll think about it.
Okay.
You're getting better, dad.
You've been sharp.
Ditto.
*
* In the midnight hour
(crowd cheering)
* Love's coming on strong
* Thoughts of you are creeping
MARCUS:
You asked me what
God sounds like,
what He looks like.
That is God.
* Love so heavy, love so sweet
Really?
* Thoughts of you baby
made me weak in my knees *
I thought He was more like
a six-piece mariachi band.
Did you just take the piss?
(laughs)
You did.
Tomas Ortega told a joke.
Oh, no, no, no.
For the record,
I tell jokes all the time,
you just don't understand them.
Oh, is that right?
All this time?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Every single time.
Oh, okay.
They go right over your head.
Yeah.
Very sophisticated humor,
my friend.
(both chuckle)
It's really over, isn't it?
Doesn't have to be.
You can make a go of this,
you know.
Hmm.
Being an exorcist.
You're not all rubbish.
Well, I thought you said
an exorcist had to give up...
family, friends.
Love.
Yeah, well, you do.
But you get to see the world.
Mm.
Live out of a bag.
(chuckles)
Cheers.
To Casey Rance.
To...
standing in the doorway
and pushing back the night.
Yours is better.
(chuckles)
Ooh.
Got to go.
Oh, come on, how can
you walk out on this goddess?
We should close the place down.
Get in a bar fight.
Next time, my friend.
(chuckles)
A la próxima...
hermano.
* Never knew why
I loved you so *
* Never did understand
* Felt like lightning
* Felt like quicksand
* Loving you, baby
* Wasn't in my plan...
(guitar solo)
(siren wails in the distance)
What are
their names, Father Bennett?
(grunting)
(rustling slows, grunting stops)
(siren wailing in the distance)
*
Hola.
(crying):
I'm sorry.
Jim.
We haven't met.
Well, that's rude.
You do know who I am, yeah?
I mean, you've been
in my house, in...
in my bed.
Yes, I know.
I came home and
he was just there.
It's okay.
JIM:
So,
how many times did
you sleep with my wife?
Does it matter?
You know, she always
used to talk about you.
"He's such a nice guy.
"Oh, we're just friends.
He's probably homosexual
just like the others."
She hid you good.
You hide too, behind
that little white collar.
(Velcro rips)
So,
who's hiding now?
Leave him alone.
You want to hit me?
I'm just telling you,
I'm right here.
You want me to be the guy
who beats up a priest in church?
I am right here.
No.
No, what I'm gonna do is
I'm going to make a call
to your boss, or bishop,
or whatever the hell he is,
and I'm gonna see how he feels
about the whole priest
committing adultery thing.
My guess, not too happy.
I'm sorry.
I never...
never meant for any...
I'll take care of this.
I promise.
(footsteps receding)
*
Now, local police are
not answering questions
at the moment,
but neighbors say Mr. Harplen
was a bit of a recluse.
(phone dialing)
He lived in the apartment
for a little over a month...
Be damned, Bennett was right.
(phone ringing)
Like he wasn't insufferable
to begin with.
Speaking of,
someone isn't answering
his phone.
...if bombs or
bomb-making materials
were found in the apartment
as of yet, but we do have
reason to believe...
I met him,
John Harplen.
He was living under a tarp,
shoes hanging off his feet.
We also believe that Harplen
was acting alone...
How does a man like that
afford a 20 grand's-worth
of military-grade hardware?
Are you saying he's a patsy?
But again...
I'm saying this isn't over.
You think it'll hurt the resale?
(chuckles)
Can I help you?
No, it's just hard to figure out
what to take and what to leave.
Henry says we could send
a moving company for the rest,
but we're gonna be fugitives,
so that's laughable.
You could always stay
and fight it.
I'm sure you could find
one member of a jury
who believes
in demonic possession.
(chuckles)
Sorry.
Too soon.
It just seems crazy
that I'm walking away
from my whole life, again.
But this time you have
your family with you, honey.
You have me.
Sure.
We could cross-stitch
pillows together that say,
"Mom, a girl's best friend."
Look, I know this is
still new, Rags, but...
Or we could burn our mouths
on this soup
that you and I make
from scratch.
And I know that we have
to build up trust,
but if you ju...
While Casey and-and Kat
prepare to pass along
their rancid MacNeil genes.
(music box plays tune)
Fine.
Forget I said anything.
Aw.
I am gonna forget everything
that you ever said to me.
You little stinkpot.
*
(whispers):
You.
(gasps, then bone cracks)
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH